So, so
far we've seen the persistent storage
API that is actually
inside navigator.storage.
That navigator.storage object is known or
is part of an spec in the W3C
known as the StorageManager API.
And persistent is just one part of it.
The other part of it is
about storage estimation.
So, on some browsers, Chromium-based and
Firefox, so not WebKit at this time,
you can actually ask for, on the same
object, an estimation of the quota.
And that will give you an object,
in this case, q,
that will give you the total quota and
the current usage.
And of course, typically you
check if that API is available.
It's important to understand
this is an estimation,
while it's not really the number.
Because there are many situations
that browsers are actually
sometimes faking the real
data to avoid fingerprinting.
So mostly when you are saving cross
domain resources on cache storage,
we'll talk about that later,
trouble with fingerprinting
actually they are faking the data.
So maybe the file is 100k but
it says that it's using seven megabytes.
So that's actually pretty common.
So that's why it's an estimation, okay?
And you can use this estimation to know,
for example, how much quota you have left.
In this case,
make some decisions such as start clearing
some data that you don't need right now so
then you can replace that with
data that you actually need, okay?
That's kind of the idea.
So they will never give you exact data,
have that in mind.
That's why it's called estimate, okay?
And remember that everything
is promise-based, so
that's why we have to
use an async function.
So back in our code, for example,
we can try the estimation API.
So I'm going to add another async function
like the persistent storage function.
So I'm also going to add an async,
the anonymous function.
If you want,
you can name that function just for
debugging purposes, and
you immediately execute that function.
That's how you can quickly
use a way that the top level
before top level await is
possible in all the browsers.
So, for example, here I can take
that object from navigators.
I'm going to await because it's a promise,
navigator.storage.estimate.
And the estimate is actually not
Something that you use on every situation,
okay?
So you wanna use this only
when you store a lot of data.
I mean, 99% of the web apps out there,
you won't need this because you
have enough quota, right, and
you're not going to store so much data.
So I'm going to call estimate.
And for example here,
we can just show some data to the console.
So we can see what are available
is from that q.quota.
This is in bytes.
So it's measured in bytes.
So if you want them in kilobytes, okay,
I should divide this by which
number [INAUDIBLE] kilobytes, 1000?
>> [INAUDIBLE]
>> That's a nice question.
>> I'm not going to get into
that discussion right now.
But yeah, if it's kilobytes,
it will be 1000, ask Google.
And if it's kb bytes, okay,
it's essentially four.
Anyway, you use whatever you want, okay?
So if you want megabytes, I'm sorry, so
this is mevybytes, that's,
I mean, the word we use.
Anyway, that's the available.
And maybe the one that we used,
there's not so
much that we can use kilobytes or
something like that.
So I'm going to take
q.usage/1024 in KiB bytes,
okay, or kilobytes, it's up to you.
And I should check if
the API is available.
For example,
this API is not right now on WebKit.
So we have persistent storage, but
we don't have this one, okay, estimation?
So I should check if
navigator.storage exist and
also navigator.storage.estimate exist.
So if that's the case,
Then I will do this.
Need to close the function And
do something like that.
So we're going to see this in the console
right now just to see if that works.
So I'm going back to my browser,
to Coffee Masters, I'm going to refresh.
So opening the same PWA but
in Chrome, we can see that right
now my quota available is
a lot of megabytes [LAUGH] and
no quota used, which is okay, expectable,
because we haven't used anything yet,
okay?
But that's how you read that.
And this is actually available
on some browsers only.